.TH SYNBAPS 3X "NU Geology" "February 15, 1988"
.SH NAME
synbaps \- FORTRAN \- callable routine to read in a portion of the SYNBAPS
worldwide bathymetry data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B INTEGER FUNCTION Synbaps
.PP
.B ier =  synbaps(array, xdim, lon1, lon2, lat1, lat2)
.PP
.B real array(xdim, *)
.PP
.B integer ier, xdim, lon1, lon2, lat1, lat2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Synbaps
allows a FORTRAN program to read in portions of the SYNBAPS worldwide
bathymetry data, which is stored in a compressed form in the file
``/usr3/topog/synbaps''.  The calling program passes
.I synbaps
a real array in which to store the data, an integer giving the X dimension of
the array, and four integers which denote the corners of the area to read.
.PP
The data file contains elevations in meters
on a 5 minute square grid for the entire
globe.  The depths are expressed as negative elevations.  Currently, the
elevation for all land masses is set to +10 meters.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.I Array
is a two-dimensional array of REALs large enough to hold the elevation data for
the requested area.  This means it must be at least
((\fILon2\-Lon1\fR)*12+1) by ((\fILat2\-Lat1\fR)*12+1)
in length, since there are 12 five-minute
intervals per degree, and there are extra points at the edges.
.PP
.I Xdim
is the X dimension of
.I array
exactly as it was declared in the calling program.
.PP
\fILon1\fR and
\fIlon2\fR are integers which specify the longitudes of the left and
right sides of the are for which data is desired, respectively.
.PP
Both must be in the range \-360 \- +360.
.I Synbaps
is smart enough to handle areas that cross the prime meridian, as well as areas
for which \fIlat2\fR < \fIlat1\fR.
.PP
\fILat1\fR and \fIlat2\fR are the latitudes of the bottom and top of the area.
They must be in the range \-90 \- +90, and \fIlat1\fR must be less than
\fIlat2\fR.
.SH FILES
/usr3/topog/synbaps
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Synbaps
returns zero if everything goes well.  If there is an error,
.I synbaps
prints an error message and returns an error code as follows:
.in +0.5i
.ta 1.5i
.nf
-1	Latitudes must be in range -90 \- +90.
-2	\fILat1\fR must be less than \fIlat2\fR.
-3	Longitudes must be in range -360 \- +360.
-4	The SYNBAPS data file could not be opened.
-5	Xdim is not large enough.
-6	An error occurred while reading the data.
.fi
.in
.SH AUTHOR
John Werner, February 1988
