.TH VGETH 3 "NU Geology" "February 15, 1988"
.SH NAME
vgeth, sgeth, vgetw, sgetw \- get half-word or word from stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B int vgeth(stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE
.B *stream;
.PP
.B int sgeth(stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE
.B *stream;
.PP
.B int vgetw(stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE
.B *stream;
.PP
.B int sgetw(stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE
.B *stream;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vgeth
returns the next two-byte integer from the named input
.IR stream .
The integer is assumed to be stored in the backwards
VAX-11 format (low byte, high byte).
.PP
.I Sgeth
also returns a two-byte integer from the named input
.IR stream .
The integer is assumed to be stored in the normal SUN byte ordering
(high byte, low byte).
.PP
.I Vgetw
returns the next 4-byte integer from the named input
.IR stream .
The integer is stored with the backwards
VAX byte ordering (low byte, ..., high byte).
.PP
.I Sgetw
returns the next 4-byte integer from the named input
.IR stream .
The integer is stored with the SUN byte ordering (high byte, ..., low byte).
.PP
These functions are obtained with the
.B \-lloc
option to the compiler or loader.
None of the functions assume any special alignment in the input file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
clearerr(3S),
fopen(3S),
getc(3S),
scanf(3S),
fread(3S),
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
These functions return the integer constant
.SM
.B EOF
at end of file, upon read error,
or if an attempt is made to read a file not opened by
.IR fopen .
Because
.B EOF
is a valid integer, however,
.IR ferror (3S)
should be used to check the success of any of these functions.
.br
The end-of-file condition is remembered,
even on a terminal,
and all subsequent attempts to read will return
.B EOF
until the condition is cleared with
.IR clearerr (3S).
